# Changes in 2.1.60 to 69

<!-- toc -->

## Changes in 2.1.64

Functional changes:

- The Windows installer no longer requires admin access (thanks to Martin). The first time you
  update, you'll need to run the installer again after uninstall completes.
- Allow the user to configure answer keys in the preferences, fixing conflicts (thanks to Ren).
- Preload embedded fonts to prevent flicker, and tweak wait time for image preloading (thanks to Hikaru).
- Add the ability to search for FSRS scheduling properties, eg. `prop:cdn:d>0.5` to search
  for the difficulty > 0.5.
- Window positions, state and browser headers are now reset each time the Qt version changes,
  which should fix a number of crashes that users were reporting.
- Add-on shortcuts will now override Anki defaults (thanks to Ren).

Fixes:

- Fix media files being imported incorrectly when importing an .apkg file exported without support for older
  Anki versions.
- Increase the number of supported fields in the editor (thanks to Hikaru).
- Attempt to work around intermittent color setting failures in Qt6.5 on macOS.
- Fix ugly text rendering on Wayland when using fractional scaling.
- Fix inability to import csv when path contains single quote.
- Show an error pop-up when csv import screen fails to load.
- Don't disable animations on card templates when reduce motion is on.
- Fix an error in the console when resizing windows (thanks to Austin)
- Fix a panic when user sets a huge learning step.
- Fix page scrolling when input box loses focus (thanks to Hikaru).
- Fix failure to start on Windows when path contains non-Latin text.
- Fix due/ivl prop queries not working in filtered decks.
- Make some collection methods public in the Rust API (thanks to Joel).

## Changes in 2.1.63

- Add alternative review shortcuts (h,j,k,l,u) (thanks to Ren).
- Add an option in the preferences to stop spacebar from rating card (thanks to Ren).
- Prevent change in image aspect ratio in editor when images have an explicit size set (thanks to Matthias).
- Fix custom sync URL not working with subpaths (thanks to XeR).
- Fix fcitx5 failing to work in Linux Qt6 build.
- Fix some buttons in the deck options screen being illegible when hovering.

## Changes in 2.1.62

- Update macOS/Linux builds to Qt 6.5, and update Windows build to Qt 6.4.3.
  - The minimum macOS version for the Qt6 build is now macOS 11.
  - If you are on Linux and don't have ANKI_WAYLAND set, you may need to install
    libxcb-cursor or Anki will fail to start. Eg on Debian/Ubuntu:

    sudo apt install libxcb-cursor0

- Add an option to fully randomize reviews in the V3 scheduler.
- Add a new option to the card templates screen to restore a notetype to the
  default fields/templates/styling.
- Add clearer tooltip to hourly breakdown graph (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix focus loss when closing HTML editor (thanks to Hikaru).
- Prevent MathJax editor from closing when you selected text with the mouse and
  released the mouse button outside the window (thanks to Hikaru).
- Pass original deck name to custom scheduling code, instead of filtered deck
  name.
- When importing an .apkg where notetypes have changed, display a clearer
  message, and only if the notes in the incoming collection are newer.
- Fix MathJax editor not being sized correctly (thanks to Hikaru).
- Fix a flicker when dropdowns shown with reduce motion on (thanks to Hikaru).

## Changes in 2.1.61

Improvements to the V3 scheduler:

- Added a global option to stop the review limit from limiting new cards (thanks
  to Rumo).
- You can now enable review burying without new burying again (thanks to Rumo).
  There are some caveats - please see the bury tooltips in the deck options.
- Ensure good is at least previous+1 even if low hard factor set.

Other features/improvements:

- You can now exclude certain fields from unqualified searches via the Fields
  screen (thanks to Abdo).
- The tag area in the editor is now shown with a dropdown instead of a splitter
  (thanks to Matthias).
- You can now adjust the current deck in the stats screen (thanks to yellowjello).
- Add a button in the preferences to reset window sizes (thanks to Abdo).
- Passing an invalid profile name on the commandline will now show profile
  picker instead of an error.
- You can shift-click on a deck to select it as the current deck (thanks to
  Tobias).
- You can now import decks with broken timestamps - they'll automatically be
  fixed on import (thanks to Rumo).
- A DB check will now fix broken timestamps (thanks to Rumo).
- Add time of date to browser date.
- Allow Shift+Tab to move focus from tag area to last field (thanks to Hikaru).
- Custom schedulers now have the deck name and random seed passed in to them, so
  they don't need to extract the info from the DOM (thanks to Rumo).
- Improve debug console (thanks to Rumo).

Fixes:

- Fix stats calendar incorrect due to daylight savings time (thanks to Kieran).
- Prevent the top bar from hiding in the stats page as you scroll down (thanks
  to Fabricio).
- Reduce motion is now on by default, as it fixes an issue with the bottom bar
  failing to appear for some users.
- Fix new limit in v3 decreasing more than it should (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix current tag text not being saved when changing note via shortcut key
  (thanks to Hikaru).
- Fix tags popover becoming separated from the tags field (thanks to Fabricio).
- Ensure the bottom buttons aren't displayed until the custom scheduling code
  has finished running (thanks to Rumo).
- Refresh study screen if the user toggles the v3 scheduler (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix notetypes screen not being closable after adding a notetype on Mac.
- Check for division by zero when calculating browser aspect ratio, which fixes
  an issue with i3 (thanks to Ben).
- Fallback to Wayland if X11 is not available (thanks to Ingemar).
- Tweaks to the build scripts to make packaging in distros easier (thanks to
  Euan).
- Fix silent file save failures and bad default save path in Flatpak (thanks to
  Jack).
- Fix HTML editor sometimes not properly sized when opening editor (thanks to
  Hikaru).
- Fix error showing if user clicks in sidebar before it's rendered.
- Fix backup creation for collections > 1 GiB (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix black on grey minimalist buttons in Qt5 (thanks to Daniel).
- Fix black on grey deck options on Qt5 (thanks to Daniel).
- Export static references from sound tags (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix packaged audio tools path on Windows (thanks to Abdo).
- Fix a case where 'reduce motion' and 'minimalist mode' were switched (thanks
  to Daniel).
- Fix panic with invalid sync server URL with port (thanks to Daniel).
- Fix double scrollbars in deck options (thanks to Fabricio).
- Fix images with non-Latin text and commas failing to display.
- Fix editor text possibly being transfer to different notetypes (thanks to
  Fabricio).
- Improve hover appearance of buttons (thanks to Matthias).
- Fix inability to activate search in graphs screen on Android (thanks to
  yellowjello).
- Fix an issue building on Windows (thanks to Kieran).

## Changes in 2.1.60

If updating from 2.1.57 or earlier, please see the important note in the 2.1.58 change notes.

- Add button to tag notes with missing media (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix slow editor startup for users with lots of fields (thanks to Hikaru).
- Fix a regression in 2.1.58 that broke TTS add-ons (thanks to Rumo).
- Fix HTML editor hiding when shown by default (thanks to Fabricio).
- Fix some widgets not indicating they're disabled (thanks to Matthias).
- Fix deck options selector not updating the current entry sometimes (thanks to Fabricio).
- Fix type box losing focus when switching IMEs (thanks to Hikaru).
- Fix 'toggle bury' not updating for automatically-buried cards.
- Improvements to lifecycle handling for add-ons accessing Svelte components (thanks to Matthias).
